# PetFinder
Predicting the popularity of a pet based on their photo in order to help PetFinder optimize animal images.

Pet homelessness is a large issue worldwide. Many animals that enter shelters often take many years to get adopted or won’t get adopted at all. A key factor in adoption decisions often comes down to an animal's photo. PetFinder Malaysia is the country’s leading animal welfare program, and is the organization hosting this competition. They are looking to leverage an algorithm to analyze photo attractiveness. There is some existing research on this topic - a 2015 study conducted on dog adoption photos in the US found that photo features that had a positive impact included direct eye contact with the camera, the animal standing up, an outdoor background, and a non-blurry appropriately sized image. However, this research was based on a small sample of dogs only. Our objective is to build on existing research and build a model that predicts the popularity of an animal based on the animal's photo. This model will support PetFinder.my's mission find homes for the thousands of animals up for adoption on their website by helping them optimize the animal images. All 4 of our models performed relatively similarly with an RMSE in the range of 20-23. The CNN model in particular has many more hyperparameters that can be further tuned to enhance model performance. We explored kernel size, strides, pool size, and image augmentation, but only scratched the surface of the available techniques we could apply. Linear regression provides interpretable insight into the characteristics of the most likeable pets in the data; the CNN is more opaque in translating to human understandable feedback about the characteristics of the image data that define likeability.
Next steps for the linear regression might be to bucket scores into H / M / L and run a logistic regression and explore other image resizing methodologies.
Moving forward, it would be helpful to understand the relationship between popularity score and time to pet adoption. In particular, if there is a wide range of popularity scores associated with the same general adoption time, this may impact the interpretation of our model’s RMSE.

